Windows Device Trust documentation (#27758)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/access-controls/guides/device-trust.mdx

## Concepts

> Device Trust leverages dedicated hardware in devices to store sensitive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Device Trust leverages dedicated secure hardware in devices to store sensitive
```

Just to be extra clear.

> Device Trust leverages specialist hardware in devices to store sensitive

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Device Trust leverages dedicated hardware in devices to store sensitive
```

credentials. The specific implementation varies between types of devices.

On macOS devices, Device Trust uses the Secure Enclave in order to store a
device private key. That key is used to solve device challenges issued by the
Teleport Auth Server, proving the identity of the trusted device.

> On Windows devices, a TPM (Trusted Platform Module) is used to perform an

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On Windows devices, a Trusted Platform Module (TPM) is used to perform an
```
it's more common to put the full name before the acronym.

attestation as to the state of the device. This attestation is signed by a

> private key that is protected by the TPM. This means that we know both

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
private key that is also protected by the TPM. The signed attestation ensures that the Teleport Auth Server knows both
```

> information about the state of the device, and that the request has come from

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the state of the device and that the request has come from
```

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

> - To enroll a macOS device:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- To enroll a macOS device, you need:
```

  - A signed and notarized `tsh` binary for enrollment.
    [Download the macOS tsh installer](../../installation.mdx#macos).

>   - A Teleport version newer than v12.0.0.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - A Teleport version newer than v12.0.0.
  
```

> - To enroll a Windows device:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- To enroll a Windows device, you need:
```

  - A device that includes a TPM with 2.0 support.
  - `tsh` installed on the device. [Download the Windows tsh installer](../../installation.mdx#windows-tsh-client-only).
  - Credentials for a user with administrator privileges for the device. This is only required during enrollment.

>   - A Teleport version newer than v13.1.2.

Author: Revisit this version number before merging.

Reviewer: Would TPM support, by definition, bump the version to 13.2?

Author: It'll be going out in the next patch release, rather than waiting for a minor release as per conversations with @zmb3

$ tsh logout; tsh login --proxy=example.com --user=alice
```

Before we can enroll the device, we need to register it. In order to register
a device, we need to first determine its serial number.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="macOS">
    The serial number of a macOS device can be determined in two ways.

    Through the UI, visible under Apple -> "About This Mac" -> "Serial number".

    Through the terminal:
    ```code
    $ ioreg -c IOPlatformExpertDevice -d 2 | grep -i IOPlatformSerialNumber | awk -F'"' '{print $4}'
    (=devicetrust.asset_tag=)
    ```
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem label="Windows">
    Determining the serial number for a device running Windows is a little more
    complicated than on macOS. This is because Windows devices can have multiple
    serial numbers depending on the configuration made by the manufacturer.

    Teleport will pick the first available value from the following:

    - System asset tag
    - System serial number
    - Baseboard serial number

>     To find the value chosen by Teleport, run the following command:

Author: It's a little awkward because of the fallback behaviour. We could list all three powershell commands, I'm a little less sure about the UI location for some of these. I wasn't able to find the system asset tag 😓

>     To find the value chosen by Teleport, run the following command:

Reviewer: `tsh device serial-number` makes this moot, so no worries.

    ```code

>     $ tsh device collect

Reviewer 2: Was `tsh device collect` also added to the CLI reference doc?

Author: Mm, not sure, this wasn't added as part of the TPM work.

Reviewer: I have mentioned hidden commands in docs before, like the "diag" commands, without necessarily adding them to the CLI reference. My 2c is that I wouldn't add this one, but your call.

Reviewer: We could also expose a simpler, `tsh device serial-number` command, that spits out the serial number and nothing else. Then we could write a single section here.

Author: I like the creation of `tsh device serial-number` command - and it'll be easy enough for us to do. I suggest we merge these docs as is, and then do that command as a separate exercise though.

Reviewer: Sounds good to me.

    DeviceCollectedData {
      ...
      "serial_number": "(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)",
      ...
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Replace the `$SERIAL` below with the serial number obtained from the device you
wish to enroll and `$OS` with `macos` or `windows`, and execute the command:

```code

> $ tctl devices add --os=$OS --asset-tag="$SERIAL"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ export OS=macos
$ export SERIAL='CHANGEME'
$ tctl devices add --os="$OS" --asset-tag="$SERIAL"
```

SERIAL could be `export SERIAL="$(tsh device serial-number)"`, per comment above.

Author: It feels a little confusing to have commands in the same code block that need to be run on the admin machine and also on the machine to be enrolled.

Author: 420fd9a1af

$ tsh logout; tsh login --proxy=example.com --user=alice
```

> Before we can enroll the device, we need to register it. In order to register

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before you can enroll the device, you need to register it. To register
```
I see that Teleport docs use a lot of first person plural (we). It's a little unusual except in tutorials. My suggestion is more "typical" but feel free to ignore if the point of view feels right to you.

Author: Definitely prefer "you" here, thanks for pointing this out!

> a device, we need to first determine its serial number.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
a device, you first need to determine its serial number.
```
just a suggestion to remove the split infinitive.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="macOS">
    The serial number of a macOS device can be determined in two ways.

    Through the UI, visible under Apple -> "About This Mac" -> "Serial number".

    Through the terminal:
    ```code
    $ ioreg -c IOPlatformExpertDevice -d 2 | grep -i IOPlatformSerialNumber | awk -F'"' '{print $4}'
    (=devicetrust.asset_tag=)
    ```
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem label="Windows">
    Determining the serial number for a device running Windows is a little more
    complicated than on macOS. This is because Windows devices can have multiple
    serial numbers depending on the configuration made by the manufacturer.

    Teleport will pick the first available value from the following:

    - System asset tag
    - System serial number
    - Baseboard serial number

    To find the value chosen by Teleport, run the following command:

    ```code
    $ tsh device collect
    DeviceCollectedData {
      ...
      "serial_number": "(=devicetrust.asset_tag=)",
      ...
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

> Replace the the `$SERIAL` variable below with the serial number obtained from

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Replace the `$SERIAL` variable below with the serial number obtained from
```

the device you wish to enroll and `$OS` with `macos` or `windows`, and execute

> the command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the following command:
```

enrollment ceremony. Enrollment exchanges an enrollment token, created by a
device admin, for the opportunity to enroll the corresponding device.

> Enrollments are tied to the current user in the device. If the same device is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Enrollments are tied to the current user in the device. If the same device is
```
maybe something like:
Device enrollment is specifically linked to the user who performed the enrollment. If the same device is handed to a new user, that user must enroll the device again.

Author: Yeah, that's nicer. Thanks.

not all TPMs include an EKCert, and it is not possible to verify an EKCert
without knowledge of the manufacturer's CA. This verification is enabled by the
inclusion of the Teleport configuration field called `ekcert_allowed_cas`.

Once configured, only devices that include a TPM with an EKCert signed by a
CA specified in the field will be able to enroll. Previously enrolled devices
will not be affected.

To configure `ekcert_allowed_cas`, you must first obtain the CA certificate in
PEM format from the manufacturer of the TPM included in your devices. This step
varies from manufacturer to manufacturer.

Once you have obtained the CA certificate in PEM format, there are two ways of
configuring `ekcert_allowed_cas`:

- Statically using the Teleport configuration file. This is the simplest
  option, but is not possible for Teleport Cloud clusters and not recommended
  for clusters in a highly available configuration
- Dynamically using `cluster_auth_preference` resource. This works with all
  clusters and is the most flexible

<Tabs dropDownCaption="Teleport Deployment">
<TabItem label="Dynamic Resources" options="Self-Hosted,Teleport Enterprise Cloud" >

> Create a `cap.yaml` file or get the existing configuration using

Reviewer: Suggestion: Since this is necessarily v13+, I would cut all the blurb and go straight for `tctl edit`.

Author: Agreed

Author: 420fd9a1af

$ tsh logout; tsh login --proxy=example.com --user=alice # fetch new certificates
```

<Admonition type="warning" title="Windows">

> On Windows, the `tsh device enroll` command will attempt to elevate to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On Windows, the `tsh device enroll` command attempts to elevate to
```

> administrator privileges on the device. This is required in order to perform a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
administrator privileges on the device. Privilege elevation is required to perform a
```

> TPM Credential Activation. This is only required on enrollment and will not be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
TPM Credential Activation. This step is only required for enrollment and is not
```

required on future device authentications.
</Admonition>

The device above is now a trusted device.

## Recommended: Configuring a TPM EKCert CA allow-list

This advice only applies to Device Trust on platforms that use TPMs. For now,
this is just Windows.

> Some TPMs include a certificate (known as an EKCert) signed by the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some TPMs include a certificate—known as an EKCert—signed by the
```

> manufacturer's CA (Certificate Authority). This certificate allows a third party

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
manufacturer's certificate authority (CA). This certificate allows a third party
```

(such a Teleport cluster) to know that the TPM it is communicating with is
legitimate. This significantly reduces the burden on the administrator to ensure
that the device has not been tampered with prior to enrollment.

By default, the Teleport cluster does not verify the EKCert. This is because
not all TPMs include an EKCert, and it is not possible to verify an EKCert
without knowledge of the manufacturer's CA. This verification is enabled by the
inclusion of the Teleport configuration field called `ekcert_allowed_cas`.

Once configured, only devices that include a TPM with an EKCert signed by a

> CA specified in the field will be able to enroll. Previously enrolled devices

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
CA specified in the field will be able to enroll. Previously enrolled devices
```
```suggestion
CA specified in the field will be able to enroll. Previously-enrolled devices
```

will not be affected.

To configure `ekcert_allowed_cas`, you must first obtain the CA certificate in
PEM format from the manufacturer of the TPM included in your devices. This step
varies from manufacturer to manufacturer.

> Once you have obtained the CA certificate in PEM format, there are two ways of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After you obtain the CA certificate in PEM format, there are two ways of
```

configuring `ekcert_allowed_cas`:

- Statically using the Teleport configuration file. This is the simplest
  option, but is not possible for Teleport Cloud clusters and not recommended

>   for clusters in a highly available configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  for clusters in a highly available configuration.
```

- Dynamically using `cluster_auth_preference` resource. This works with all

>   clusters and is the most flexible

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  clusters and is the most flexible.
```
